1. Definition of DBMS -> Database Management System or DBMS in short refers to the technology of storing and retrieving users data with utmost efficiency along with appropriate security measures. 

2. Database -> It is a collection of related data and data is a collection of facts and figures     that can be processed to produce information.

3. Architecture -> It is a 3-tier architecture.

                Presentation Tier
                      |
                Application Tier
                      |
                Database Tier

4. Data models -> It define how data is connected to each other and how they are processed and stored inside the system.

5. Super Key −> A set of attributes (one or more) that collectively identifies an entity in an entity set.

6. Candidate Key −> A minimal super key is called a candidate key. An entity set may have more than one candidate key.

7. Primary Key −> A primary key is one of the candidate keys chosen by the database designer to uniquely identify the entity set.

8. E-R Diagram Representation :-
      a) Entities are represented by means of rectangles.
      b) Attributes are represented by means of ellipses.
      c) Composite attributes are represented by ellipses that are connected with an ellipse.
      d) Multivalued attributes are depicted by double ellipse.
      e) Derived attributes are depicted by dashed ellipse.

9. Generalization -> In this, a number of entities are brought together into one generalized entity based on their similar characteristics.

10. Specialization -> In specialization, a group of entities is divided into sub-groups based on their characteristics. 

11. Relation Data Model Concepts :-

      a) Tables − In relational data model, relations are saved in the format of Tables. This format stores the relation among entities. A table has rows and columns, where rows represents records and columns represent the attributes.

      b) Tuple − A single row of a table, which contains a single record for that relation is called a tuple.

      c) Relation instance − A finite set of tuples in the relational database system represents relation instance. Relation instances do not have duplicate tuples.

      d) Relation schema − A relation schema describes the relation name (table name), attributes, and their names.

      e) Relation key − Each row has one or more attributes, known as relation key, which can identify the row in the relation (table) uniquely.

      f) Attribute domain − Every attribute has some pre-defined value scope, known as attribute domain.

12. Data Independence : Two types of data independence are->
      a) Logical Data Independence - It is a kind of mechanism , which liberalizes itself from actual data stored on the disk. 
      b) Physical Data Independence - Physical data independence is the power to change the physical data without impacting the schema or logical data.